## Branches
> A branch is simply a reference to a commit via its ID. This reference is updated every time you make another commit on that branch.

> Every time you switch branches, Git rewrites your working directory to look like it did when you made the most recent commit on the branch you just switched to.

`git branch branch_name` creates a *new* branch
`git branch` *lists all* *local* branches with only their names
`git branch -v` *lists all* *local* branches with their names, their commit_ids and their commit_msgs
`git branch -vv` In addition to the above command, also displays *remote tracking branches* associated with *local branches*
`git branch -a` lists *all* branches (local + remote tracking)
`git switch branch_name` *switch* to another branch
`git branch -m new_branch_name` *rename* the current branch
`git branch -m old_branch_name new_branch_name` *rename* old_branch_name to new_branch_name

In Short, a **branch** is just a reference with a *name* and *commit id*.

\*\* branch names and tag names allow `/`, `.` and `-`

## Switching Branches
`git branch new_branch` then `git switch new_branch` or
`git switch -c new_branch`

It is a good practice to keep *wokring dir* clean before *switching*, i.e. stage then commit before switching.
When you switch branches, Git rewrites your *working directory* to look like it did when you made the most recent commit on that branch. It also updates the *index* to look the same. 
In other words, *all three areas will look the same* (the same as the commit/branch) right after switching.
\*\* The only exception is if you are on a new branch with no new commits, if you make changes without staging and switch to another branch, git will keep the changes in the *working dir*.

## Getting help
`git command_name --help` man pages for git commands
`git comman_name -h` shorter man pages for git commands
`git help command_name` sam as `git command_name --help`

## Merging
Merging *feature* into *main* results in *main* having all the changes in both *main* & *feature*.

`git merge feature` merges feature into the current branch

There are two types of merges
1. **fast-forward merge**: When the feature branch you are merging back to the integration branch has all the changes in the integration branch already. No new commit is made.
2. **merge that creates a new commit**: When the integration branch contains changes not in the feature branch. Git will create a new commit to accomadate both changes. Possible conflicts need to be resolved. 
3. *rebase*: When you rebase one branch onto another, you are asking Git to replay all the commits on the current branch on top of the latest commit on the other branch.
	
	Say you are on `feat-a` and you want to *rebase* onto `main`. Simply run `git rebase main`. This will result in moving all of the commits in `feat-a` on top of `main`. 
	
	Note that the newly added commits *will have different commit ids* since parent commit is used in commit id calculation. The *changes in each commit will remain the same*. 

	 Also, `main` will not be moved to the new tip, you have to switch to `main` and merge `feat-a` back in.
## Conflicts
You have four options when dealing with a conflict
1. Keep the changes in *branchA*
2. Keep the changes in *branchB*
3. Keep both (if possible)
4. Discard both and add something new

After modifying the conflicted file(s) `git add` them then `git commit`

## Deleting Branches
###### Deleting merged branches (local)
`git branch -d branch_name` deletes a *local* branch, make sure to switch to another branch first.

Remember a *branch* is just a *reference* to the latest *commit* on a branch, deleting it *removes that reference* but **DOES NOT** remove the commit, unless the commit becomes *unreachable*.

As long as a commit is *reachable*, i.e. another commit is pointing to it or a branch is referencing it, it will be kept around.
###### Deleting unmerged branches (local)
You have to run `git branch -D branch_name` to force delete an *unmerged* branch.
The reason git tries to stop you is because if you delete an *unmerged* branch the commits on that branch becomes *unreachable* and will be deleted.
###### Deleting remote branches
To delete *origin*'s *feat-a* branch:
`git push -d origin feat-a`
###### Deleting remote tracking branches
`git fetch -p` This automatically deletes any remote tracking branches that have no counterparts in the remote

## Restoring a branch
`git branch branch_name commit_id` You can restore a deleted branch even if the commit it is based on is deleted. This is not limited to deleted branches or deleted commits, this command simply *creates a branch off of a commit_id*.

## Typical Workflow
1. Base your new branches on commits on integration branch.
2. Merge back into integration branch once you are done.
3. Don't reuse branches. i.e. after merging back to integration branch, delete the feature branch.
