## Git Restore
###### Reverting Changes not yet Staged
`git restore fileName` is the opposite of `git add`. It makes a copy of the file in the *index* and puts it into the *working* directory.
`git restore file1 file2 file3` just like `git add` you can supply it with multiple files.
###### Reverting Changes Staged but not yet Commited
`git restore --staged fileName` makes a copy of the file in *object db(last commit)* and puts it into *index*.
`git restore -S` same as above

## Git RM
`git rm file1 file2` takes the paths of one or more *tracked files* and *removes* them from the working directory and the index.

One can *restore* files removed by `git rm` by `git restore --staged` to restore it in the *index* then `git restore` to restore it in the *working* directory.

Note for *untracked* files just `rm -rf` it.

For deleting tracked *directories* use `git rm -r` 

## GIT MV
`git mv old_file_name new_file_name` *renames* a file. You can use it to *move* a file as well.

This affects files in the *working* & *index* just like `git rm`.

## GIT AMEND
`git commit --amend -m 'my new message'` for *editing* the last commit's message.

Run `git status` to make sure that the *index* is clean before doing so, otherwise you end up adding new changes to the *object db*. If there is extra stuff in *index* run `git restore --staged` to make *index* match the last *commit*.

Note that after amending the only differences are the *commit id* and the *commit message*. Everything else, commit time, commit content, metadata will all be the same.

> When you amend a commit, you are not actually changing a commit. Git records a new commit with the new commit message and replaces the previous commit in your commit history. Git will eventually delete the older commit.

## GIT RESET
There are three flags to `git reset`: `--soft`, `--mixed`, `--hard`. No matter which one, running `git reset` *always* moves the `HEAD` and the `branch` to the *commit* you specify.

Lets say the latest commit_id is `B` and the previous commit_id is `A`

`git reset --soft A` The *object db* latest commit will look like commit `A`, the *index* and *working dir* will have all the changes in commit `B`.

`git reset --mixed A` or `git reset A` The *object db* latest commit and *index* will look like commit `A`, the *working dir* will have all the changes in commit `B`.

`git reset --hard A` *object db*, *index*, and *working dir* will all look like commit `A`

## GIT REVERT
A way to undo a commit like `git reset`. The main differences are 
1. `git revert commit_id_you_want_to_revert` You supply the commit id of the commit you want to revert. Instead of `git reset commit_id_to_reset_to`
2. `git revert` creates a new commit. A commit that introduces a set of changes that are the exact opposite of the commit that you wish to undo
3. `git revert` can only revert one commit; whereas `git reset` can reset multiple commits if supplied a commit id far enough in time. `git reset HEAD^10` for example.



