## Git Pull
`git pull` check if any *new commits* have appeared on the remote repository for a *particular branch*, and if so, *retrieve* those commits and update your local branch with the new commits

Steps after `git pull`
1. git checks if there are *additional commits* on a particular remote branch
2. If there is, *fetches* the new commits and *updates* the *remote tracking* branch to point to the newest commit
3. It then proceeds to *update* your *branch* to point to the same *commit* that the *remote tracking branch* points to
4. By default it uses *merge* strategy, you can change this with setting either one of the three
	1. `git config --global pull.rebase false` i.e. merge, this is the default
	2. `git config --global pull.rebase true` i.e. rebase
	3. `git config --global pull.ff only` i.e. fast-forward only

## Git Push
`git push` pushes any *new commits* on a branch to a remote repo's branch. In order to do so, you need to associate a remote branch with the local branch with `git branch -u remote_repo remote_branch`

Steps after `git push`
1. git checks if *branch* is ahead of *remote tracking branch*
2. If it is, push the *new commits* to the associated remote's branch
3. *Update* remote tracking branch to point to branch

## Git Fetch
`git fetch` retrieves _any and all_ new branches and commits that are in the remote but aren’t present in your clone.
Furthermore, fetch *only updates* the r*emote tracking branches*—it leaves your local branches alone.
`git fetch -p` also *deletes* remote tracking branches that doesn't have corresponding branches at remote.

## Git Fetch vs. Git pull
`git fetch` *fetches all* branches (even new ones that existed only on remote) but it *does not update* the local branches to match their remote tracking branches. 
`git pull` only fetches new commits on the current branch. It then *updates* the remote tracking branch to point to the newest commit then *updates* the branch to match its *remote tracking branch*, this can result in a *ff merge* or a *merge with a new commit*.

`git pull` === `git fetch` + `git merge` (for the current branch)

It is better to use `git fetch` + `git merge` since it is more explicit

## Conclusion
Right after a `git push/pull` the *branch*, *remote tracking branch*, and *remote branch* will all point to the same commit.

When issuing `git push/pull` it matters what branch you are on since it only affects the current branch. Whereas `git fetch` does not, it fetches *every* new branch and all new commits.

\*\* `git fetch` often since it only *updates the local clone* and does not affect the local branches.

\*\* Favor `git fetch` then `git merge origin/main` on the local `main` branch over `git pull`.




